I've spent a lot of time trying to
figure out how stories what a story is
and how stories shape what we point our
attention to okay so I understand that
relationship between pointing and and
verbalization but also pointing and
specification of attention Okay so I'm
going to I'm going to bring in some
other ideas and I'll get you to comment
on them so I was quite taken by my
studies of JJ Gibson so Gibson wrote a
great book called the um ecological
approach to visual perception and I
think there's some brilliant things in
it and I've been elaborating on Gibson's
ideas in the context of of narrative and
I guess narrative is relevant to the
idea of sharing because a lot of what we
share are stories and I think stories
are Pointers to Value that's a way of
thinking about it so so let me lay out a
phenomenological world for you and tell
me what you think about this so imagine
you specify uh a point with your aim
okay so now you're determining a
destination this is what FL what bees do
when they communicate about where the
pollen and the and the nectar is in
flowers they specify a treasure House of
value okay so that's the that's the
point that's the
destination okay so from the from
Gibson's perspective once you establish
a
point then the world lays itself out as
perceptible objects and some of those
are tools they're all what he called
affordances they're all they're all the
phenomena that are now relevant to that
goal and you can break them he broke
them into roughly into two classes
tools and so a tool something you can
use to move yourself along your pathway
and
obstacles and I've been thinking about
elaborating that so I think what happens
when you when you specify a
point with your
let's
say your your perceptual system produces
a pathway
forward right that's your root and then
the root is accompanied by the things
that are relevant you you talked about
the fact
that know we we are taking in 11 million
bits per second but compressing that to
16 almost all that we perceive
is obscured as irrelevant it's not even
part of our conscious experience so what
stands out well
Pathways then tools and obstacles so
those would be like material those would
be material entities but then I think
there's a parallel in the social domain
friends and
foes so friends that share your aim and
accompany you along the way and they can
be helpful and foes are human obstacles
but also can obscure or interfere with
your aim so tools friends
o obstacles foes and then there's one
other element which I think is very cool
I just figured this
out I think the other thing that we
perceive are agents of
transformation and those would be like
magical creatures in a fairy tale and an
agent of transformation changes your aim
and the reason they're magic is because
the world of the aim that they specify
doesn't play by the same rules as the
rule of the aim that you
inhabit right so
okay so now the the reason I'm telling
you this that's relevant to it's
relevant to the pointing idea because
that's kind of the landscape that
emerges as a consequence of pointing but
it also is relevant to the sharing idea
um I've been thinking that you know when
we speak with each other we're offering
each we're offering the fruits of our
imagination that's a way of thinking
about it each word is actually a
storehouse a value or a pointer to value
and so you could say the reason
Consciousness evolved and this seems to
be very much in keeping with your
thinking is
that we can offer people pointers to a
destination or specify a destination and
again that's not much different than
bees do when they're you know when
they're doing a dance to specify where
the honey is and so it's the fruits of
our imagination that we can encapsulate
in words and maybe we have that private
Consciousness our ability to think on
our own so that we can build up a story
St House of value so that we actually
have something to trade with other
people okay so well so that's a that's a
take on the things that you just
described so I'd like to know what you
think about that it I come to think of
of of the uh of the Paradigm of
predictive processing which has been
very uh uh influential in the past 10
years in in understanding how we
perceive the world Carl friston a
British guy is one of the leaders of of
the field and and the basic idea there
was a philosopher involved very much in
in in explain yakob hovi explaining this
Paradigm predictive processing who was
kind enough to say that the that the
Deep idea behind it actually was in this
book the user illusion oh oh that's cool
that's cool it's nice of him to say so
yeah yeah yeah but but the point is that
what I what US illustion tries to say is
that first we take in information and
then we create create a sort of a
simulation of what that information is
and then only then do we experience we
don't experience the right take in we
experience our own retelling of what we
take in and predictive processing
Paradigm is is is basically saying that
all we experience when we go about in
our stuff in the world is our
predictions of what will happen next
what will this guy do what will this
monkey do uh will there be a fault in
the rain when I walk there so it's all
about predicting so in that sense it's
all about storytelling everything we
know about the world is storytelling and
then of course it it turns out very
often that our stories are wrong we are
corrected uh we we we understand that
there was something wrong and so we
correct our storytelling we we make it
more and more qualified and we and and
when we get to know people we we have a
better uh ability to to know what to
expect from them and so on but it's all
a question of creating a story not
inconsistent with the information we
take in and there's one thing here
that's I think is very deep and that is
if you take
children they're afraid of the
dark you go into the forest in the
evening uh as a kid and you are scared
uh because of of what could be in the
dark if go there in the daytime you're
not scared at all why is that that's
because there's nothing to
contradict the inner fantasies of the
kid when it's dark there's no
information that runs counter to the
idea of many many weird trolls and
demons out there but in in the daylight
there's so much information that
contradicts your ideas so in a way all
of our perception of the world is a
hallucination we
create under the condition that it does
not cont contradict the sensory data we
take in so we are constantly constantly
telling stories so telling stories is
what perception is all about and of
course human beings have taken this to a
higher level than we expect a mouse to
take it to but it's basically the same
phenomenon that we we try to create a
consistent idea of what the world is
like but it's what we experience is our
own dream if you like or our own fantasy
or
better word is our own
hallucination um and it it so this will
explain all the things we see uh in in
when when when the light falls and and
you you enter into to Twilight Zone and
then suddenly there's not enough
information to contradict all the weird
ideas you have in your head